There's a question.
There are very few things that money can't buy.
It's true for how much do you think?
They hire homeless people and others who need a job to stand waiting in the line for as long as it takes and the lobbyists just before the hearing begins can take his or her placed at the head of the line and a seat in the front of the room paid line standing.
It's happening the recourse to Market mechanisms in Market thinking and Market Solutions in bigger arenas.
We've drifted almost without realizing it from having a market economy to becoming Market societies.
The market Society is a place where almost everything is up for sale.
It's a way of life in which Market sinking and Market values begin to dominate every aspect of life.
He wouldn't matter very much but when money comes increasingly to govern access to the essentials of the good life.
And so the marketization of everything sharpens The Sting of inequality and its social and Civic consequence to worry.
With some social goods and practices when Market thinking and Market values enter they may change the meaning of those practices and crowd-out attitudes and Norms worth caring about like to take an example.
Of a controversial use of a market mechanism a cash incentive and see what you think about it.
Many schools struggle with the challenge of motivating kids especially kids from disadvantaged backgrounds to study hard to do well in school to apply themselves some Economist have proposed a market solution offer cash incentives to kids for getting good grades or high test scores are for reading books.
So, let's see what some people are in favor.
How many would be in favor?
And how many would be opposed to giving it a try?
Let's see by your show of hands first how many things might at least be worth a try see if it would work raise your hand.
Let's start with those of you who object who would rule it out even before trying.
Hello everyone.
Cakes the intrinsic incentive away.

All right, what's emerged from this discussion is the following question will the cash incentive drive out or corrupt or crowd out the higher motivation intrinsic lesson that we hope to convey which is to learn to love to learn and to read.
Will they have learned that reading is a chore a form of Peace work to be done for pay.
They assumed doesn't change the meaning or value of the goods exchanged.
Can change the character of the goods?
Themselves can change the meaning of the social practices as in the example of teaching and learning.
From our bodies to family life to personal relations to health teaching and learning to Civic life.

We live and work in shop and play in different places are children go to different schools.
Is it a satisfying way to live?
What it does require is that citizens share in a common life what matters is the people of different social backgrounds different walks of life encounter one another up against one another in the ordinary course of life because this is what teaches us to negotiating and to provide our differences and this is how we come to care for the common good.
I'm so in the end?
